'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH mosquitto_sub 1 "3 March 2010" "" ""
.SH NAME
mosquitto_sub \- an mqtt version 3 client for subscribing to topics
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBmosquitto_sub\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fB-h\fR \fIhostname\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIclient_id\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkeepalive time\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIport number\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fImessage QoS\fR] {\fB-t\fR \fImessage topic\fR} [\fB-v\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmosquitto_sub\fR is a simple mqtt version 3
client that will sublish to a topic and print the messages that it
receives.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-host\fR\*(T>
Specify the host to connect to. Defaults to localhost.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-i\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-id\fR\*(T>
The id to use for this client. If not given, defaults
to mosquitto_sub_ appended with the process id of the
client.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-k\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-keepalive\fR\*(T>
The number of seconds between sending PING commands
to the broker for the purposes of informing it we are still
connected and functioning. Defaults to 60 seconds.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-p\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-port\fR\*(T>
Connect to the port specified instead of the default 1883.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-q\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-qos\fR\*(T>
Specify the quality of service desired for the
incoming messages, from 0, 1 and 2. Defaults to 0. See
\fBmqtt\fR(7)
for more information on QoS.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-t\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-topic\fR\*(T>
The mqtt topic on which to sublish the message. See
\fBmqtt\fR(7)
for more information on mqtt topics.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-v\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-verbose\fR\*(T>
Print published messages verbosely. With this
argument, messages will be printed as "topic payload". When
this argument is not given, the messages are printed as
"payload".
.SH EXAMPLES
Note that these really are examples - the subscriptions will work
if you run them as shown, but there must be something publishing
messages on those topics for you to receive anything.
.PP
Subscribe to temperature information on localhost with QoS 1:
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
mosquitto_sub -t sensors/temperature -q 1
.PP
Subscribe to hard drive temperature updates on multiple
machines/hard drives. This expects each machine to be publishing its
hard drive temperature to
sensors/machines/HOSTNAME/temperature/HD_NAME.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
mosquitto_sub -t sensors/machines/+/temperature/+
.PP
Subscribe to all broker status messages:
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
mosquitto_sub -v -t \e$SYS/#
.SH BUGS
\fBmosquitto_sub\fR bug information can be found at
http://launchpad.net/mosquitto.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBmqtt\fR(7)
\fBmosquitto_pub\fR(1)
\fBmosquitto\fR(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Roger Light <\*(T<roger@atchoo.org\*(T>>
